Here you will take your notes.
client = c, a model for communicating the proyect
s = server, another program.
we want to communicate both programs. This model is known as SERVER-CLIENT model.
The client starts the communication by sending a message to the server, the server has a request, which is the message that the server has previously send and it makes a response.
On the internet there could be another client who also wants info or a service. So there could be many clients.
If we do not have a client it does not happen nothing, it will continue be waiting until any client connect to the server. On the other hand it is more problematic
cause the client is asking for info and there is none on the other side. A SERVER IS ALWAYS NEEDED.
This programs are running inside a computer(in a general way; it could be any device with a controller such as mobiles, tablets...). In this devices we have many programs.
When we are testing this client apps we do not need to compute them in order to test them.

Both the client and the server are connected through internet, which have been designed in order to show that this communication  is really easy, however, this is not so easy.
Inside the internet there are many isolated computers that are connected and divided in groups called networks. I f we want to send a message from the client to the server, first we have to
identify the network we are in. This is called IP address, it is an address that can change depending on what computer you are connected to.
The NETWORK interface (look for it).
There is a command called PING to ask the computer if it is alive, it is mandatory to answer it.
URL: UNIVERSAL RESOURCE CONNECTOR (identifying an IP address for humans)
To communicate with any computer we need the IP address; in the same computer there can be many apps, to connect with any of them we use another number that is called the PORT.
The servers are usually connected to the port 80. We should use the IP and the port to communicate with any server. Without hose numbers we can not connect.


*My phone IP address at URJC is: 10.0.54.66
*My computer IP address is: inet 212.128.253.75
*Teacher's IP address is: 212.128.253.64
*ping time to 8.8.8.8:
    time=3.52 ms
*ping to my computer:
    time=0.051 ms
*ping to 212.128.253.76 (classmate):
    time=0.455 ms
*ping to my mobile phone:
    time=26.1 ms
*ping to www.google.com:
    its IP address is 216.58.214.164
    and the time spent is:  time=3.52 ms
*pint to pur university:
    its IP address is 212.128.240.50



This is an example for adding to my file.This is an example for adding to my file.